[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> According to the Toltec
man, every night that we go
to sleep, most of
us have amnesia.
And so when we enter
into the dream state,
we don't know who we are.
But really, there's
a part of yourself
that's actually participating
in the creative process.
They believe that
creative process
that happens in the dream state
is what shapes the awake world.
And so if you want to
master the awake world,
you have to master
the dreamworld.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of my theories about
death when it happens--
it's like when you
wake up in the morning.
You remember a bunch of
elements of your dream--
different scenes, situations.
But as the day goes
on, it fades out
like a glass of water being
thrown back into the ocean.
>> Now, as Plato says,
learning is remembrance.
He calls it anamnesis,
non-amnesia.
And so that's the
goal in life is
to remember what we forget
in the act of birth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Let go of your fear in
considering the illusion
in this life.
>> All these traditions have
different ways of explaining
where we come from.
What is this thing that
everybody calls God?
And what is that?
And for a very long time,
religion, and philosophy,
and science were not exactly
saying the same thing.
And now, long story short,
the newest physics, the newest
science is basically starting
to point in the same direction
as these ancient traditions.
At no point does the universe
say, oh, that's it, stop.
You've got to stop right there.
That's as small as you can go.
This circle could start
out the size of a galaxy,
or the size of a quark.
It doesn't matter.
You can always
sub-divide and get
more information
out of that space.
So does it make sense, then?
You can stay inside of
any finite boundary--
is the possibility of an
infinite amount of division,
or therefore, an infinite
amount of information?
Cool.
You're infinite beings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This stuff pisses me off
about this cosmic connection.
What is that group thing
where they're coming in from--
we're all connect--
I don't believe that
for a second, man.
I am not connected to nobody--
no how, no way.
>> We're a minuscule
part of reality,
and we don't even know
where we come from.
We don't know where we're going.
We don't know why we're here.
We don't know who made us.
And we could be
gone at any second.
In light of that,
how do we behave?
What do we do?
And does this even matter?
And what's the point?
Right?
Those are the
questions that we ask.
It seems that
consciousness is evolving
And the truth is I don't
think anybody knows anything.
I don't know anything.
That's for sure.
And yet, we learn
from our experience,
and we try to offer
something to one another.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you see anyone take
advantage or suspicious
activity, please report it
to a monorail official on any
of the monorail stations.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of the beauties of nature
is to see that all of creation
is a series of fractals.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Fractal comes from
the word fracture.
All of nature is going along
certain fracture lines,
proportional symmetry
throughout, top
to bottom, all the way
down into the cells,
all the way down to the
quarks, all the way down
to the subquarks, all the
way down to the Higgs boson.
Hence, when someone like Hermes
says, "As above, so below,"
and as below, so above,
that's indicating
this kind of self-similarity
from the above to the below
and vice versa.
So we are holographic
images of the divine source.
>> The person who's thinking
about this is just a small
piece of it.
The mind that's thinking
about it is just--
it's like a particle
in the universe,
but is also the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Each one is made like
the two leaves of the womb--
and if you know a vagina.
And there's a little
bright orange seed
that pops out and is
actually still attached
like an umbilical cord, so
that birds can notice it better
and carry it to be
planted somewhere.
It's an incredible
process and so beautiful.
So what we do today is
to share about harmony.
Everybody can
understand harmony.
You can be a musician.
You can be an artist.
You can be a housewife.
You want harmony in your house.
It's applying to all aspects
of life, the basic secret
of the universe.
And that is called--
has been called traditionally
the golden ratio,
or the golden number, or
the golden proportion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a bit of confusion
about what the golden section,
golden ratio, or golden mean is.
And you can use
all of those names.
First of all, the golden
section is the cutting
of a magnitude, a line,
whatever it might be,
at an asymmetric point, in
which the whole is to the longer
segment in the same ratio
as the longer segment is
to the shorter segment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You have proportion
when the whole
is to one segment
in the same ratio
as the longer segment is
to the shorter segment.
Well, it turns out there's
one and only one place.
Of course, you could
flip it around.
You could cut it over here--
that you get exactly
this proportion.
We call it the
divine proportion,
because it's how nature works.
The primordial cision, the
first-- like a scissors,
the first cut.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> That's the balance
point of beauty, harmony,
and best relationship in all
the universe on all levels.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If everything is just
exactly 50% on both sides,
nothing happens.
It's static.
It's stuck.
In life, you need to have
spiraling and vortexing.
You always need to have one
side that gives some momentum,
so things can start to happen.
We jump in the middle of life.
We become life.
The human body is the best
book, the book of life.
>> So the body is a resonant
golden proportion instrument.
Navel cuts us at the golden cut.
I've been measuring my students
for something like 30 years
now.
In fact, generally speaking,
you don't have people
who are perfect golden cuts.
They tend to be like the plants.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So plants are using in the
very placement of their arms
and feet-- their branches, and
their leaves, and their seeds.
They are using the golden ratio.
It's used by all the
universe everywhere.
But you need to know
what you are looking
for, because the plant does not
say, look, this is 137 degree.
You need to understand the
geometry that is involved.
One leaf here.
Next leaf-- we come here.
And there is a spiraling of that
angle, which is 137.5 degrees--
which is directly related
to the golden ratio.
But you enter the 360
degree in the equation.
You get 5, or 1 over
5, a reciprocal of 5.
A fractal series, a
fractal progression
of golden ratio to infinity.
Infinitely small,
infinitely big never stops.
>> The golden ratio at 1.6180339
is pulling everything in nature
towards it.
So when these numbers--
Fibonacci numbers
begin with 0 and 1,
each new number is the
sum of the previous two.
So it goes 0, 1, 1, 2, 3,
5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89,
144, and, of course, a
child can keep doing it.
Each ratio of two
adjacent Fibonacci numbers
are an approximation
to the golden mean.
What happens is it
goes above and below.
But as the numbers
get higher, it's
zooming in from both
directions, collapsing
into the golden
section, which is--
the sink is the magnet that
pulls everything towards it.
So it's teleological.
It actually is-- teleos is the
Greek word for end or purpose.
Things are moving towards
some incredible divine purpose
or end, pulled by
the divine source.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Ratio is a
universal language.
Because all the plants,
and all of the seashells,
and all of the different
forms in nature,
right down to
sub-atomic particles,
and the spirals of galaxies--
they all contain it.
So what does it mean?
How deep does it really get?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Human consciousness
also spirals that way
in my research.
It's very, very much a
repetitive, iterative pattern.
And I have likened them at
times to Fibonacci numbers
to the spiral, to a conch.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We start with a discussion
of, what is consciousness?
Consciousness is the ability to
receive and react to stimuli.
So if you look at a
proton or a neutron,
if you start talking
about the protons being
able to react with
the electron, then you
can say that they
exhibit consciousness,
a very basic consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It seems to me that
planets, after they form,
especially rocky planets, need
a huge amount of time to provide
the basis for complex life.
They need billions of years
of cleaning of the atmosphere.
And then after those billions
of years, you get this luxury--
this rarity of
having, say, oxygen
that powers cells
with more energy that
allow cells to get together
and form animals, and plants,
and fungi, and things like that.
And it's really the
getting to complexity--
the network of nerve
cells, vascular plants,
the network of root systems,
and the network of eco-systems.
And when you get
enough complexity,
you can then support animals
that get bigger brains.
And as their brains
get bigger, they
can engage in something called
self-reflection, like awareness
of self.
If you see yourself
reflected in the river,
you understand what
you're looking at.
There's only a few
animals that do that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When babies are born, they
don't know they have a body.
At some point, they
start recognizing
the confines of
their physical body,
and that it is separate
from something else.
>> So when infants in the
beginning-- when they are born,
they are in their
subconscious state.
They are living on
an instinctive level.
And even if they're looking
at mother, they're not saying,
oh, this is my mother.
I like her.
Or she's too fat.
I don't know.
I don't like my mother.
Children don't have that mind
that discriminates and chooses
for or against what is present.
So that means human beings--
when they become conscious,
they begin to choose
for and against.
>> When we look, and
we see, and we label,
we stop and we solidify
something that's continually
moving and changing.
And so then we're shaping that
dream, or molding that energy,
based off of our
belief structures,
our lives, our sleep
states, our emotions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You know, the
question is, what am I?
I mean, that's a question
that's just been around forever.
And there was a time where
that was your body, right?
If you said, where am I?
you would point here.
You'd say this is right here.
>> At first, people understand
themselves as a concrete body,
and so their identity
is their physical self.
>> And then there's a point
where you realize, well,
I don't have a body.
I am not a body,
but I have a body.
That's your body.
Then you realize that
about your thoughts.
And you realize, well,
no, those are my thoughts.
Those are my feelings, right?
Those are my ideas.
That's my desires.
But who's saying-- who's
doing the possessing?
We're talking about not
what we're looking at,
but where we're looking from.
>> You recognize you still
have a concrete body.
You recognize you
have this subtle self,
but you start identifying
with something new.
And that something new
is awareness itself.
Your identity is awareness.
This room is inside
your awareness.
This body is inside
of your awareness.
Everything outside of you
is everything inside of you,
and there's not a
separation between them.
When you identify
with that as me,
it changes the way you
think about everything.
>> And certain people
have that experience--
is that they see
the world and yet,
they can see it most clearly by
looking inside of themselves.
And so they find that the entire
universe is within themselves.
That which they thought was just
purely inside of themselves--
they can see outside
of themselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I grew up in a
Methodist Church.
And sometimes people
would get the spirit.
They would run up and
down the church aisle,
and that always terrified
me-- the church.
So consequently, I
never embraced religion.
In fact, at one time
I thought maybe God
was a creation of man, just
to fulfill his purpose,
for the most part.
And ironically, I discovered
God through science,
through quantum physics.
The most basic of
elements is energy,
and energy pervades
the universe.
We are all connected.
Now, this energy
could be intelligence.
It could be information.
It could be whatever
you want to call it.
But the bottom line is it's
divine as far as I'm concerned.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The meaning of the struggles
we all face is very simple.
It's all about lessons.
What have you come to learn?
What do you need to know?
The struggles we have
today are about fear.
They are about the
fact that people
don't get that everything we
are and everything we see here
on this planet are illusions.
We are just energy.
And the vibration is what
creates what we're looking at.
>> Everything vibrates.
Everything moves to and fro.
Everything has a periodness,
like the pendulum.
>> Some people might say the one
thing that connects everything
is God, or the one thing that
connects everything is light,
or love, or a lot
of different things.
But physically,
literally, all the matter
that we see in this room and our
own bodies are made of atoms.
We've never have
found any matter
that's not made of atoms.
>> Everything is--
Madame Blavatsky, the
theosopher, said--
all atoms are vibrations,
that that's what they are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I had a dream once
where I asked the question,
if the cosmos began, could
it have started from a single
point?
And if it had started
from a single,
cool point, how would
it have come to be?
Well, it could have been
that one point begat another.
One point became two.
Why?
Because that point had a
probability of disappearing.
So what do you do if you're
a dot with a finite lifetime?
You make a backup.
When it makes its backup
and then those particles
make their copies, the optimal
unpacking of that whole system
is to flow along a
Fibonacci spiral.
And it goes out to a
certain point where
there's too much crowding.
You start getting
unpredictability,
and things start colliding.
And in the universe, therefore,
if you had explained it
in human terms, a breathing
in of order and a breathing
out of chaos.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The wave is actually born
out of this duality of this
pairedness.
So you go from singularity,
pure void, to duality.
And you need duality for
a spiraling wave action
to appear.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Look, religions,
and superstitions,
and whatnot find patterns.
And people come up with
stuff in their imagination,
but we need something objective.
And the only way to find truth--
was objectively true is to have
a community that reviews itself
of predictions,
hypothesis testing.
All these wonderful coincidences
happen in our lives constantly,
right? if we're really tuned in.
So we have to
believe in the field,
because we're constantly guided.
And all this stuff--
miraculous stuff seems to
be happening all the time.
Science cannot clarify.
Mysticism cannot explain.
Geometrical patterns
cannot explain.
And it's something beyond
all human mind explanations
and story.
We just use it.
We have to trust it.
It's what drives the world.
It's what we are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Phi is the name that has been
given to the golden proportion.
That's the capital form,
and that's the lower case.
Notice that the lower case is
kind of a spiral by itself,
which is interesting.
And the capital letter
is a magnificent symbol.
You can see I put two
different colors here.
There is like a central
axis, the male energy
of the universe, and the
womb of the Madame goddess.
The cosmic energy of the
mother is the round--
the curve.
And the straight line says
the yang energy of the unit.
The yin and the yang
are perfectly harmonized
in the great clip
there, that we use now
for expressing the golden ratio.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The yin and the yang--
they are born from each other,
and there's just this
constant interplay.
We're born out of that--
the dance and the
interplay between the void
and the creative impulse.
Sometimes when we talk
about yin in the void,
we think of the darkness.
I think about the womb.
I think about the
stillness and silence.
I think about our
consciousness before thought.
And then the yang
is what is born out
of that into action, and
expression, and the creative,
and the movement.
>> With a lot of the qigong
and Taoist practices,
they say the only way to
bring about true yang is from
complete yin, which is
the ultimate stillness.
So it means no desire.
The heart's calm.
And when you reach
the calm state,
then emerges that spark,
because I would imagine you've
come in contact with
your true nature.
>> I have a special spiritual
teacher who talks about
stopping all seeking.
That's where meditation-- again,
this bringing us into stillness
is where we are in a place
where we can experience reality.
Just stop the mind.
Stop wanting anything.
And there's
something for me that
happens in that, that
goes beyond words.
>> What you perhaps are
doing is quieting the mind,
or exciting the mind, or both,
to the point where you suddenly
lose the observer.
You lose self and you
merge, because you become
part of this huge
information system,
and you're in the
non-dual state.
But at the same time,
you have vision.
Vision comes into your
system, because there's
history out there.
And the history can
pattern non-locally
on to your consciousness,
through your filters.
Consciousness may be just
simply awareness and openness
to all of this in
the present moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is a pull towards
evolutionary unfolding,
and it's moving.
It's being pulled towards
this golden ratio.
And not just the beauty
of it, but what it also
means in terms of
harmony, and harmonization
of human relationships,
and going back
to the Delphic oracle--
nothing in excess.
Find the point of moderation.
Find the mean
between the extremes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Beauty is one of the most
powerful forces on the planet.
Crystals are
inherently beautiful,
and it's really easy to see.
And there's quite a bit
of agreement from people
all over the world that they
look at something beautiful,
and there's no denying it.
Crystals are this
amazing oxymoron,
because they're
so hard, so dense.
They're harder than steel on
the Mohs scale of hardness,
yet they're very fragile, also.
If I took a hammer-- boom,
I could knock it right off.
They're very solid, but
they're transparent.
In fact, your eye
has never looked
through that much
dense matter before.
Within their being, they
hold a great deal of paradox.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We see in binaries.
Our senses have
developed so that they
have to make distinctions.
So our eye can see
the corners of things.
It can see black and white.
It can see different colors.
But it sees the edges and the
differences between the edges.
The ears hear
differences in sound.
And when we walk, we
walk with one foot
and then the next foot.
We have kind of a binary system
made up inside of ourselves.
And our species tends to really
look at the poles of things.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Anything that manifests,
manifests in polarities.
And how we deal with
polarities is a function
of how we process reality.
If there is an in-breath,
there's an out-breath.
If you kind of appreciate
the color white,
you have to know that
there is the color black.
The next step of maturity is
to realize that any polarity--
you could hold
both aspects of it.
>> People think of
humility and arrogance.
When you think, OK, I
am a very humble person,
and then you realize, oh, just
by declaring that I'm humble,
aren't I arrogant?
Or, oh, my gosh, I'm
such an arrogant person.
But by recognizing
that, aren't you
really claiming
some humility there?
>> You cannot know how good a
thing is until you know how bad
a thing is.
>> It's just part of the
expression of being human to go
through every shade of
what we can experience.
>> So we have a
light on one side,
we have dark on the other side,
and everything in between.
And my experience is that
the divine consciousness
is all that is, both
the light and the dark.
Both the most amazing
things that are happening
and the most heinous things that
are happening on this planet
is a part of this
divine consciousness,
expressing itself in all
of these different ways.
And where does that
spectrum lie within us?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A lot of things that we
recognize as being negatives
are actually just a part
of human experience.
That voice of fear
will speak up and say,
I'm being courageous here.
I'm trying to protect the self.
And then the voice
of courage will say,
I'm just insane if I don't
have a healthy dose of fear.
And almost all of us have
allowed fear, for instance,
along with a lot of
other things to take
a center place, rather than
a deep, spiritual place
of abundance.
The important thing to realize
about spiritual progression--
the deepest states of
refined consciousness
more easily fit into that
more developed vessel.
So you have to develop
the structural capacity
to hold the state of awareness.
And so there are these aspects
of ourselves that are there.
And if we're not aware of
them, they become shadow.
And they're sort of doing
something in our lives,
but we're not fully
aware of them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So what I'm saying is in
order to change the world,
we don't have to act
on the external things.
We have to act in the
way that people think,
the way people see
things, and the way
they understand their life.
You make the rule.
You make the way
to break the rule.
>> There is a bigger and bigger
split that's taking place
in the New Age consciousness,
because a lot of people are
living in their upper chakras.
They're not going down.
They're not doing the descent.
I find that the
work really begins
on the spiritual
path, at least for me
and people I've
worked with-- is when
we do the descent into the
underworld, when we really
start looking at our own stuff,
and we start digging deeper.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> To me, shadow is at the
hidden part of any person,
pieces of yourself that you
pushed aside or repressed.
A lot of times it has to do
with what is traumatic for you.
What is traumatic
for you may not
be traumatic for anybody else.
But we all have our own little
places that cause trauma in us.
>> At some point, you begin
to become aware that there are
multiple pole dimensions
within yourself.
You sort of have this
symphony of aspects going on
in yourself, and you
begin to recognize it.
To the extent that you have
things going on in yourself
and you're not
fully aware of it--
I mean, that's your shadow.
And one of the primary
tendencies that we all tend
to do is we project our shadow.
Typically, the things we
dislike the most about ourselves
without acknowledging that
we projected on other people.
>> Working with the shadow,
there's an unconsciousness
there.
So when people are projecting
or launching their own stuff
on to somebody
else, a lot of it's
because they're
unconscious of what they're
holding within themselves.
And we have to project our
own stuff on to somebody else,
so we can see it,
and externalize it,
and begin to work with it.
>> Let's say if I'm making a
judgment about the way that you
think--
if I point that finger
right back at me,
I'll find that I
also think that way.
So my inside is
like your inside.
My subtle self is
like your subtle self.
>> So whatever is up in you, and
whatever lesson you need to be
learning, or whatever you
need to be looking at--
if you're kind of conscious
of that, you'll see it
reflected in the
people around you--
your family, your friends.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Because it's the part of
ourselves that we don't own,
right?
Something that's
kind of happening
in our lives that is there.
It's niggling us.
It's calling us.
It's bothering us, but we
don't see it as ourself.
So it's in form, but
it's not in our identity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And then there's also
the collective shadow,
which is a whole-- another
aspect we hold-- our shadow,
our own personal work
that we have to do.
And as we're working
on that, we also
hold the collective shadow,
so the much bigger picture
of what's happening in global
consciousness, the shadow
of the Earth of human nature,
of our culture, of our family,
of our community.
>> A certain kind of collective
consciousness evolves around
our country, or our
tribe, or our family,
and makes the other, that's not
part of that group, our enemy.
And we fight them,
and we glorify that.
And a lot of the harm that it
does is in the shadows, too.
In order to maintain that kind
of military, nationalistic
mythos, we isolate ourselves
from the actual experience
of war.
If we had the direct
experience of those folks,
we might not send them off to
war for the reasons that we do.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The oldest thing in the
book is warring, right?
Blowing up other people.
Oh, they didn't do that.
So you're back and forth.
Back and forth.
So what is it they say?
Trying to get a new result from
the same thing is insanity.
So here we are.
Where are we at?
We're insane.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a collective
ego that forms in a group,
and that can be twisted.
A collective ego doesn't really
have a monitoring conscience,
so I think that's why
such damage can be done.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I don't think we've been
assuming that we can just throw
stuff away.
It's like we're throwing
it away in our backyard,
and it's just going to go away.
We just haven't-- we just
forgot that that's the backyard.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Help us out to be
kinder to our Mother Earth.
I ask you this, my
ancestors and great creator.
I recognize you as a
maker of all things
to show us how to be
kind to our Mother,
so we can drink clean
water, breathe clean air,
and grow good food on your soil.
Encourage the hard conscious.
Yep, all my relations.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So we started a place as
human beings-- homo sapiens,
whatever you want to call us.
We started it very,
very close to Earth.
And we've gone very, very
far from what-- we've
become distant with the land.
And a lot of
disconnect happened,
which led to other Ds--
dysfunction, deluding,
all of the divorce
with the connection,
a real deadly divorce,
divorcing yourself
from the connection you have.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What kind of footprint
do we want to leave?
What kind of cellular
footprint do we
want to pass on
to who stays here?
Killing animals for sport--
that's not the kind of
footprint we want to leave.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is there really any shadow?
Is there really any
such thing as evil?
I struggle with that.
I'm not 100% sure, but I'd
love to believe that there's
no such thing as evil.
There's just somebody who's in
pain, who's lost, who believes,
in fact, that they are the
opposite of who they really
are.
They've embodied the false
persona of the shadow.
So one of the most important
things we can understand,
about why we believe
somebody becomes
this version of
their false self,
is this idea that during
trauma or after trauma,
we must attach.
We must connect.
We must cope.
The first example
might be when you
went through the
trauma of childbirth,
coming from this perfectly
homeostatic environment,
getting squeezed through
this tight tube with all
this screaming.
And then these bright lights
and a smack on the butt.
Believe me, that's a trauma
when you come from this to that.
And yet, why do most children
seem to do quite well?
is because they had
authentic attachment.
What's authentic
attachment for that child
would be the mother's
breast, and then
the oxytocin, and the bonding
chemicals, and the mother
staring into the baby's eyes.
And even though the baby might
not have an understanding,
the subconscious knows I'm OK.
I'm safe.
I'm loved.
But sadly, we live
in an environment
where the opportunities for
authentic attachment are few,
and the opportunities
for what we
call pseudo-attachment,
or addictive attachment,
or false attachment are plenty.
And we say that duality
comes from the moment
of our first trauma,
combined with
our first false attachment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And in that moment, there's
a fracturing of the psyche.
And the shadow, if you
were, or the false self,
is created in that moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's emotion.
There's anger.
There could be fear.
There could be
humiliation, shame.
It gets stored in the body
and held by the muscles,
because we don't
want to feel that.
[SCREAMING]
>> You have something
going on inside--
a pain, a judgment
about yourself,
a concept that you
need help with.
And it all starts with
seeking this higher level.
We wish to be more.
We wish our experience of this
moment to be more than it is,
so I'm going to inject
some other substance
to try and bring me higher.
>> Body is the temple of God,
but it has become the temple
of the devil, the ego.
It has become the
abode of the ego.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So ego has taken over so
much of subconscious energy--
we call pranic energy--
and abused it so much that the
body has lost sense of feeling.
And feeling is through
which you experience
different aspects of your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the consciousness
gets trained into a rut,
and then the body
reflects that pattern.
Disease originates
first in the spirit,
and then it filters down
through the energetic levels.
So by the time it
hits the body, that's
just how the picture
has been painted.
That's how the clay got molded,
because of the pattern that's
been operated in for so long.
>> People get stuck on a thing
about themselves and never get
past it, because they've now
made this their identity.
They're attached
to their sickness.
>> The very thing that I was
going to, to cope with the pain
of my experience, the very thing
I was going to escape it was
creating more of it.
I was blaming it on
my past, my stabbing.
I justify it through
this, because I
lost my eye when I was 19 in
a stabbing, so I've suffered.
I'm OK.
I'm allowed.
And when I realized that I am
doing this in this moment--
to me, it's my fault--
is when I took full
responsibility,
not just for the addiction,
but for every single aspect
of my life.
Every single thing
that I was experiencing
is when it all fell away.
All addictions fell away.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When someone or something
comes into your life as a great
challenge, and what you perceive
from them is a great deal
of pain, then they are
actually your greatest teacher.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
That's what it's all
about-- getting the lesson.
Do we often get the lesson
the first time around?
No.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A toothpick taps us on
the shoulder and says,
lesson time, and we
brush that toothpick off.
The toothpick becomes a pencil,
and the pencil becomes a ruler.
The ruler becomes a yardstick.
And the yardstick becomes
a two-by-four and then
an oak tree.
And before you
know it, a redwood
is slamming you
with the same lesson
that the toothpick or the pencil
could have brought to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you react from fear,
if you react by letting
pre-conceived ideas, prejudices,
biases flavor your action,
that's not free will.
Free will is understanding
that you have a choice.
that when something comes up,
you need to investigate all
the possibilities of it.
And only then, when you choose,
might you have free will.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Karma means action.
Anything that you think--
thoughts are action on a
certain level of karma.
And when it becomes
verbal action,
it's the next level of action.
And then verbal
becomes physical.
It's the grossest
level of action.
So whenever your thoughts,
feelings, or actions
are against the reality that you
are facing at any given moment,
you are creating karma as
a debt against the reality.
What is that?
That means whatever I'm facing
at any given moment is reality.
But if I judge that person, that
situation, I am creating karma.
Why?
Because the judgment
comes not from who I am.
It comes from who I
am not, as programmed
by my past experiences.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Behaviors are often elicited
by sort of unconscious pictures
that we've created.
Something comes up.
I react to it,
and I do it again.
It becomes a habit.
And it's like there's
this unconscious picture
that the thing comes up, and
the picture tells me what to do.
What the brain expects
to have happen--
it elicits a physiology and
a behavior to make it happen.
>> Behavior follows belief--
creates your reality,
which means that your belief
system will always lead
to behavior, consciously
or unconsciously driven,
that will always
create your reality.
>> So all the years that you
have spent in your life--
you've had it programmed by
the society, by the culture,
by education.
And that programming
is your past.
And when it resurfaces as
a reaction, that miss--
it's called mini reincarnation.
You reincarnated from
your past as a reaction
to what is present.
>> Am I actually behaving
in a way where I'm creating
a self-fulfilling prophecy, by
just recreating my pain state
over and over again?
And we would say that
that's the case with all
of the world's dysfunction, that
it all operates the same way.
That it's all a hijacking of the
survival centers of the brain.
That it's all dysfunction driven
by fear, driven by less than,
driven by isolation.
And that our solution is the
same, whether for a culture,
whether global, or
whether an individual--
is that I have to
step out of my story.
I've got to step
out of my dynamic.
I've got to take
personal accountability
and stop perpetuating
the pattern that's been
going on over and over again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So every time
that karma comes up,
as a reaction to
what is present,
withdraw from your reaction.
And you are dismantling
from your karma body
for that particular event,
which created that karma,
similar to that event.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And as a result, now, when
you withdraw your reaction,
you can see the object as it is.
You can see the
person as they are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The paradox in the sense
of control goes like this.
The more I try to take control
of the world out there,
the more out of
control it feels.
The flip side of the
paradox is the more
you let go, trying to
control the external world
and respond to it, just
accept what's there is there,
and respond to it from
this inner wisdom,
from your deep wisdom,
and values, and integrity.
You feel a sense of control.
It's about control of me in the
face of it, not controlling it.
It's important to
the health outcomes.
>> If I know that
I have the power,
no matter what you do to me, no
matter what experience happens
in my life, I still get
to hold on to compassion.
You can't-- nobody has the power
to take compassion away from
me.
I can choose to use my
circumstances or your behavior
as an excuse to surrender
that aspect of who I am.
But we say that's when
you really suffer.
>> And that's what
Christ demonstrated.
He was so heavily
abused for even
doing such a wonderful
work throughout his life.
When he was on the
cross, he said forgive
those who do not understand.
That was the complete
death of his ego.
Therefore, he was born again,
and there was a Resurrection.
He showed us the way--
how to die.
People think he died
for us, so we'll
be liberated by following him.
No, follow what he
did on the cross,
and then you will be liberated.
That's what is the meaning.
>> And this is where you get
the Christs and the Buddhas.
There are individuals
who have gone
into a cosmic
conscious experience,
but that stands
before all of us.
All of us are Buddhas in the
making, Christs in the making.
Ultimately, we're
going to achieve it,
but it may take some time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the planetary
experiences are horrible.
They're horrendous--
some of them--
many of them.
I can't take them away.
We can't take them away.
We can want them away.
We can wish them away.
We can heal.
Keep healing.
Keep doing your part.
I'll keep doing my part.
Do your own personal healing,
because it's all fractals.
And the world will heal.
But as long as there are
still battles going on
in your own system, there
will be battles going on
in the bigger picture.
>> So many people come through
with this vision of, I need
to change the world.
And really, it's just doing
the work on ourselves,
because that shifts the
vibration and the energy
that we hold around us.
And so that's really the first
step is to work on the self,
bringing that work back
into the community.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you can connect
with your divine source,
you will always be at peace.
You will have love.
You will experience
things in life that are--
you might have
something that happens.
You might get angry,
but you won't hold it
for very long, maybe
a half an hour,
two hours, or three hours.
And you'll let it go,
because you know it
won't serve your highest good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If we unite with
our consciousness,
we have the ability
to change this world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If I could whisper
into the heart of mankind,
what would I say?
>> If I could whisper anything
into the ear of the collective
human consciousness,
it would be,
tap into your kindness and
live your greatest strength.
>> I would say that there
is nothing but love,
that that's really
all that exists.
And it's all a dance of love.
>> I think we are all a
homeopathic drop in the pool
of humanity.
That would be my whisper.
>> If I had to whisper something
into the collective ear
of mankind--
that it's time to grow up,
and it's time to wake up.
>> Know yourself.
>> Probably just have the
courage to tell the truth.
Ask yourself if it serves you
and move towards what does,
and that will
always be the truth.
>> Take time to find out the
way you would really love things
to be.
Now, that's not just
utopian, but the way we
would be treating each other--
that you would love it to be.
And then do it that
way, regardless
of what someone else is doing.
>> We are all connected.
It's all the same.
There's only one
life, and we better
start understanding that.
If we're not kind
to one another,
it's going to be a
miserable existence for us.
>> See-- and I told you that
I don't believe in all that.
I think it's an
effort that happens
to make that thing go down.
It's not like a cable or a wire.
It's an actual sincere effort.
>> So what I learned from
the jaguar is the pain
and suffering of
the animal kingdom,
and it's not very pleasant.
And we are the perpetrators.
We are the cause
of their suffering.
It isn't the animal kingdom
that has made humans suffer.
It is vice versa.
We are the culprits.
And I have experienced the pain.
>> Forgive for being so
naive, for being so hateful,
for being so angry,
for being human.
>> We're destroying
this place so fast.
I pray that there's a
future for our children.
>> Remember anything you do, or
a part of, belongs to a larger
dynamics of large events.
And you want to be part
of always large events.
Learn how to be in harmony with
your neighbor, your partner,
your job, your situation, your
house, your community, just
like the universe is
in harmony with you.
>> Listen to the faintest
voice, because your ego mind is
so noisy with crowd of voices.
Enter the silence.
And in silence, you'll be
revealed who you really are--
god that you are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]